1) I am now assuming that you have read through the previous sections of this guide and thus you know what you are getting yourself into, how to choose a proper world/base location, and how to get some initial tools up and running.  If not then §0§oRTFM§r.

2) Use NEI when ever your going to craft something.  Most recipes have been changed and mod guide books might be incorrect.  NEI is the end all be all for your crafting needs.

4) Always carry a guardian chest in your main inventory, bound if possible.

5) Immersive Engineering powerlines can convert GT-EU to RF and back.

6) Peanut butter and jelly sandwichs count as different foods based on the type of jelly and restore a lot of hunger.  This means you will need to find a peanut ASAP.  They are a product of ground gardens, which spawn in forests, tiagas, and mountains.  There are many fruits you can make preserves from, but you will also need sugar to make them.  Sugar cane can be found wild, but it will grow poorly in this natural form.  Breed wheat with carrots to produce a sugar cane plant on Agricraft cross crops.  This is a major priority before your Spice of Life grace period expires.

7) Install Mo' Creatures.  You will get access to more food, leather, slime, and more.  Also DRAGON MOUNTS!!!  Super cool, don't miss out on this.

8) Mithril is the key to getting into magic mods, as this is the base for mana steel and mana steel the the base for thaumium.  You will also need silver, gold and mercury for your magical workings.  A GregTech custom vein has been added that provides all of these magical metals in a "one stop shopping" vein.

9) In order to travel farther afield than you can get in half a day, you should create a sleeping bag.  This is a MUST HAVE item.  It only requires a bunch of wool to make.  Trying to survive after dark in the early game (short of cowering in a hole) is suicude.  Can't find sheep?  Hemp -> String -> Wool.

10) GregTech is a central component of this pack, it is recommended that you review how this mod works at least up through the bronze age.  It is unlikely (although not specifically impossible) that you will be able to get much done in any other mod until you have advanced to at least this stage in GregTech.  The key requirement is the ability to make steel and alloys.  Once you have this technology, the pack will really open up to you.

11) Can't find copper or tin veins?  There are still small pockets of Thermal Foundation ores in the world, although they do spawn at a reduced rate from what you would normally expect.  You could gather enough of them to progress if needed.

12) Still hurting for ores, the nether is rich in ores and the ore blocks have a higher base yield.  Do be aware of how dangerous the nether is though, the mobs are brutal and nether ore blocks do have the tendency to explode when mined (forutne increases this chance) and they also "may contain traces of hellfish".  Also, the pigmen don't like you stealing their shinies (although this really is the least of your worries in the nether).

13) DON'T look a hellspot (nether mob) in the eyes.  Seriously, just don't do it.  Of course, this book doesn't have any pictures so you might need to look at one to know what it looks like.  Kind of a catch 22, I know.

14) You need to be a level 12 hunter to kill rammerheads.  I have heard that their hides are strong and aerodynamic.  In order to get those initial hunter levels, look for Goalbys and Magickes in mountainous biomes.  Headless Hunters are night time spawns that also give early hunter levels.

15) Steel, your going to need A LOT of it.  There are two approaches to make a blast furnace in the early game, several hundred bronze ingots for a bronze plated blast furnace, or a quick trip to the nether for nether brick to make the railcraft or immersive engineering blast furnace.  Dealers choice.  They both hurt, just in different ways.

16)  You must kill the ender dragon and at least one wither to get into any Advent of Ascension dimensions as their drops are required for the Thaumcraft infusion that will create the ancient teleporter blueprint.

17)  Your probably missing the crafting station about now.  Mods other than Tinkers Construct have crafting tables that don't suck, checkout Project Red, Thermal Expansion, and Steves Workshop for a couple of your options.

18)  Hoding onto a buckets of hot liquids without a hasmat suit will start hurting you after a couple of seconds.  Also, don't touch hot pipes.  Blame Greg.

19)  Radiation is bad.  Have I mentioned the fashionably orange hazmat suit yet.

20)  If a skeleton shoots you with a naquadah enriched arrow, I'm sorry.

21)  About the chance cubes... aim away from face when opening.

22)  Firm tofu counts as any meat.  You will however need a presser to do this and it does require later game materials to produce (or some lucky dungeon loot)

23)  Avoid building your base near Roguelike Dungeons, they can be a source of lag due to the large numbers of mob spawners contained within.

24)  When making GregTech iron tools, if you create the whole tool at once (head and sticks on the crafting table at the same time) you will get the standard Minecraft vanilla tool.  If you craft just the tool head and add the stick later, you will get the GregTech version.  This is important when crafting recipes require a vanilla tool (i.e. Blood Magic: Sigil of the Fast Miner)

25)  Wrought Iron tools are 50% more durable than normal iron tools.  Wrought iron can be created by smelting iron nuggets, or use the bloomery furnace from Garden Stuff.  The bloomery uses charcoal as fuel and takes in iron ingots and sand to produce wrought iron.  This method is much faster and more fuel efficient as the cost of a little sand.

26)  It is unadvisable to break ore blocks inside your base, Geonaks can spawn from natural and player placed ore blocks.  They tend to destroy the surrounding blocks when they spawn and should it be an elite or boss Geonak, the crater created can be substantial.

27)  I have heard from my top scientitists that there is a type of crystal that resonates a powerful energy.  Unfortunately, thier ores only exist deep, down in the earth.  How could you possibly get deep enough down to reach them.

28)  Does the vast array of foods leave you searching for recipes for something you haven't eaten recently?  Try Cooking for Blockheads modular kitchens.  Just jam all of your noms into fridges, and the cook table tells you what you can make and loads the recipes for you.