This section is for notes about tweaks to the game rules and facts of a more technical nature.  It is to convey information about interactions between mods that might have less than desirable or straightforward results.

1)  As of version 20 or Reika's mods, issues involving long periods of unresponsiveness when using the "U"sage  and "R"ecipe functions of NEI has been corrected.  Prior to this update, you could end up waiting 10+ minutes when using these functions for the first time after loading your world.

2)  The Earthshaking Crystals is impossible to craft due to it's requirement of a vanilla ghast in a souls vial.  All ghasts are from either Epic Seige Mod or Twilight Forest.  A one way conversion recipe has been added to convert an ESM ghast soul vial into a regular ghast soul vial.  This is a shapeless recipe and involves only the ESM ghast soul vial.  It can be crafted in the players inventory.

3)  Due to a bug in NEI, Botania Pure Daisy recipes do not render correctly when looking up living wood/rock recipes.  The input block display doesn't acknowlage the meta data for the blocks.  This only affects the recipe lookup, not the required blocks.  The corrected inputs are outlined below
3a) Living Wood ~ Skyroot Logs, Golden Oak Logs
3b) Living Stone ~ Aether Holystone, Aether Icestone

4)  Avoid building your base near Roguelike Dungeons, they can be a source of lag due to the large numbers of mob spawners contained within.

5)  Reactorcraft reactors MUST be chunkloaded ALL TIMES.  They also MUST fit in a single chunk.  You will be very sorry if you do not listen to this warning.

6)  Should any technical issues arise that require changes to the Advanced Rocketry star map, you can follow the steps below to reset this data and pull the updated star map into your world.  Should a reload of the star map be required to correct a bug, this will be indicated in the changelog accessed from the blue tab on the main menu (hit esc in game) or GitHub.  If anything more sophisticated be required, you will find detailed instructions on what kind of maintanence you need to perform on the corresponding GitHub issue page documenting the problem.

	a) Locate the file ..\minecraft\config\advRocketry\advancedRocketry.cfg
	b) Find the setting B:resetPlanetsFromXML and change it's value to true
	c) If there is need to reset any dimensions controlled by AR, you should delete the dimension's folder in your save file.  For example to reset the moon of Minecraftia, navigate to ..\minecraft\saves\AotT SuperFlat Recipe Test\advRocketry and delete the folder for that dimension.  In our case of the moon, this dimension is in the DIM-8 folder.  You can review the planetDefs.xml file to find the ID of the dimension to reset.  Only AR created dim3ensions will be in the AR folder of your save, all other dimensions are in the root of your world folder.
	d) Launch the pack and open up the world that needs the changes.  During pack launch, the flag will have set itself back to false.  This is normal behavior.